projects/DropBy.md, before:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: img/DropBy_LandingPage_Screenshot.jpg
title: "DropBy — Local Event Discovery & RSVP Platform"
date: 2025-08-01
published: true
labels:
  - TypeScript
  - React
  - Next.js
  - Web Application
  - Team Project
summary: "Developed a web application for discovering and sharing local community events, allowing users to browse events, create listings, and RSVP through a clean, minimal interface. Contributed across frontend, backend logic, software architecture, and project documentation as part of a four-person team."
---
**DropBy** is a web-based event discovery platform designed to help people find and share local community events such as sports meetups, social gatherings, faith-based events, and casual hangouts. Unlike traditional social media feeds, DropBy focuses on simplicity and usability by presenting only essential event information—what’s happening, where, and when—while making it easy for users to RSVP or create their own events.

The application allows users to browse upcoming events, filter them by category, create new event listings, and RSVP to events they plan to attend. Authenticated users can view events they have RSVP’d for and manage their own event postings. The overall goal of the project was to reduce the friction of discovering local activities and encourage real-world community engagement through a clean, focused user experience.

This project was completed during July–August 2025 as part of a software engineering course and was developed by a four-person team. My role spanned multiple areas of the project, including contributing to the overall software architecture, working on both frontend and backend development tasks, and leading the creation and maintenance of project documentation. On the frontend, I helped implement core user flows such as browsing events, creating events, and RSVP interactions using React and TypeScript. On the backend side, I assisted with application logic related to event data handling and user interactions. I also played a key role in organizing documentation, structuring the GitHub Pages site, and ensuring project artifacts were clearly presented and accessible.

From an engineering perspective, DropBy emphasized collaborative development and milestone-driven delivery. The team used GitHub Project Boards to plan and track work across multiple milestones, breaking down features into manageable tasks and coordinating contributions through issues and pull requests. ESLint and Prettier were applied to maintain consistent coding standards, and the application was deployed using Vercel.

---

## Key Takeaways
- Gained experience coordinating frontend, backend, and documentation work across a multi-person team using GitHub Project Boards and milestones  
- Learned how to balance feature scope, usability, and delivery timelines when building a product-oriented web application  
- Improved understanding of designing clean, minimal user interfaces that prioritize clarity and ease of use  
- Strengthened collaboration and communication skills through iterative development and shared ownership of features  

---

## Potential Enhancements
- Adding notification support for event updates, reminders, and RSVP changes  
- Expanding search and filtering with location-based queries and more granular categories  
- Integrating calendar exports (e.g., Google Calendar) for saved events  
- Improving scalability and performance for larger numbers of events and users  

---

## Demo & Links
- **Live Deployment:** [https://teamdropbygithubio-kappa.vercel.app/](https://teamdropbygithubio-kappa.vercel.app/)
- **GitHub Organization:** [https://github.com/teamdropby](https://github.com/TeamDropBy/teamdropby.github.io)

Commit message:

Update DropBy project images and add screenshots
Updated image references and added screenshots for various sections.

projects/DropBy.md, after:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: img/dropby/DropBy-Logo.png
title: "DropBy — Local Event Discovery & RSVP Platform"
date: 2025-08-01
published: true
labels:
  - TypeScript
  - React
  - Next.js
  - Web Application
  - Team Project
summary: "Developed a web application for discovering and sharing local community events, allowing users to browse events, create listings, and RSVP through a clean, minimal interface. Contributed across frontend, backend logic, software architecture, and project documentation as part of a four-person team."
---
**DropBy** is a web-based event discovery platform designed to help people find and share local community events such as sports meetups, social gatherings, faith-based events, and casual hangouts. Unlike traditional social media feeds, DropBy focuses on simplicity and usability by presenting only essential event information—what’s happening, where, and when—while making it easy for users to RSVP or create their own events.

The application allows users to browse upcoming events, filter them by category, create new event listings, and RSVP to events they plan to attend. Authenticated users can view events they have RSVP’d for and manage their own event postings. The overall goal of the project was to reduce the friction of discovering local activities and encourage real-world community engagement through a clean, focused user experience.

This project was completed during July–August 2025 as part of a software engineering course and was developed by a four-person team. My role spanned multiple areas of the project, including contributing to the overall software architecture, working on both frontend and backend development tasks, and leading the creation and maintenance of project documentation. On the frontend, I helped implement core user flows such as browsing events, creating events, and RSVP interactions using React and TypeScript. On the backend side, I assisted with application logic related to event data handling and user interactions. I also played a key role in organizing documentation, structuring the GitHub Pages site, and ensuring project artifacts were clearly presented and accessible.

From an engineering perspective, DropBy emphasized collaborative development and milestone-driven delivery. The team used GitHub Project Boards to plan and track work across multiple milestones, breaking down features into manageable tasks and coordinating contributions through issues and pull requests. ESLint and Prettier were applied to maintain consistent coding standards, and the application was deployed using Vercel.

---

## Key Takeaways
- Gained experience coordinating frontend, backend, and documentation work across a multi-person team using GitHub Project Boards and milestones  
- Learned how to balance feature scope, usability, and delivery timelines when building a product-oriented web application  
- Improved understanding of designing clean, minimal user interfaces that prioritize clarity and ease of use  
- Strengthened collaboration and communication skills through iterative development and shared ownership of features  

---

## Potential Enhancements
- Adding notification support for event updates, reminders, and RSVP changes  
- Expanding search and filtering with location-based queries and more granular categories  
- Integrating calendar exports (e.g., Google Calendar) for saved events  
- Improving scalability and performance for larger numbers of events and users  

---

## Screenshots

### Landing Page
![DropBy Landing Page](img/dropby/DropBy_LandingPage_Screenshot.jpg)

### Browse Events
![Browse Events](img/dropby/Browse_Events.jpg)

### List an Event
![List an Event](img/dropby/List_Events.jpg)

### RSVP Flow
![RSVP Events](img/dropby/Events_RSVP'd.jpg)

---

## Demo & Links
- **Live Deployment:** [https://teamdropbygithubio-kappa.vercel.app/](https://teamdropbygithubio-kappa.vercel.app/)
- **GitHub Organization:** [https://github.com/teamdropby](https://github.com/TeamDropBy/teamdropby.github.io)
